# Hardware Lead

In high school, I participated in the NASA HUNCH (High school students United
with NASA to Create Hardware) program. When astronauts go to the International
Space Station, they create two lists. One is a list of things they need. These
include things like water and electricity repairs that NASA engineers need to
prioritize. The other is a list of things they want. This is a list that aren't
important enough to dedicate engineers to, but would make life on the ISS
easier. The list of things they want is sent to the HUNCH program. Students then
choose a project they want to work on, form a team, go through the research and
development process, then present to NASA representatives to see if their work
will be implemented.

My group's project was the Mass Indication Calculation Experiment (MICE). On
earth, whether it feels like it or not, we are constantly exercising against
gravity. On the ISS, we lose this constant motion and our bodies deteriorate. To
examine how this affects us, there are mice on the ISS that are being massed
frequently to check for osteoporosis. In a zero gravity environment, it's not
possible to use a scale to weigh things. In order to mass the mice, rotational
motion is utilized. This means the mice are placed in a container, which is then
rotated around a point. This creates centrifugal force and allows the mouse to
be massed. However, this induces a lot of stress on the mouse. The stress causes
the mouse to vomit and use the restroom, which creates inaccurate measurements.
Another level of inaccuracy is added just through the structure of rotation. If
a directly equal counterweight is not placed on the direct opposite end of the
mouse and the center post isn't strong enough, the center of rotation will be
lost. This causes more inaccuracies in measurements.

Our group lead proposed using linear motion instead of rotational. If we
accelerate the mouse linearly, calculate the acceleration and the force, we can
find the mass using `F = ma`. This is an over simplification of the math and
physics that went into the actual project. Our group was split into two teams.
We had the theoretical team looking to find a proof of concept and the
implementation team working on the development of the prototype. I was the head
of the implementation team. I was in charge of researching different types of
hardware to create the acceleration needed and lead prototype development on an
Arduino UNO.

By the end of the project, which lasted the duration of a school year, we had
achieved proof of concept. However, we did not have to tools to create a
prototype to reflect this. Our major limiting factor is the existence of gravity
and friction. We achieved proof of concept through a six foot frictionless track
and a weight dropped to pull the cart to create a quick acceleration. Our
prototype needed to be under a 12 inches and much slower. Despite achieving
proof of concept, the project was not picked up by NASA. I visited the high
school in my freshmen year to talk on behalf of the program. I learned from our
NASA contact that our project was picked up where we left off by an independent
contracting company and is now in use on the ISS.

Mid-Year Review Photos:
[[A]](files/hunch_midyearMICE.jpg)
[[B]](files/hunch_midyearjohnson.jpg)
[[C]](files/hunch_midyearall.jpg)

Final Review Photos:
[[B]](files/hunch_finaljohnson.jpg)
[[C]](files/hunch_finalall.jpg)

