## A Message from Dean Yi Deng

![Drexel University College Of Computing & Informatics Logo](drexelcci.png)

Good evening students,

It was brought to my attention during this morning’s _Donuts with the Dean_ that
there are questions related to the single-use restroom on the 10th floor. This
restroom, located near the advising offices, is currently closed due to a
plumbing issue. Our team is actively working with building management to rectify
the situation, but we unfortunately do not yet have a timeframe for reopening.

In the meantime, there is a single-user restroom available on the first floor
located at the rear of the drop-in lounge. Once the necessary repairs are
completed on the 10th floor restroom, we will notify the CCI community. Once
reopened, this restroom will be accessible to students who prefer not to use the
gendered restrooms on the 9th, 10th, and 11th floors. To be clear, and as stated
by University policy and local law, all individuals have the right to use the
restroom that aligns with their gender identity and expression and I want to be
sure that we do everything we can to help every member of our community feel
secure and comfortable here at the College.

In acknowledging this larger issue of creating a safe and inclusive environment,
I feel it is important to reiterate CCI’s commitment to fostering a space where
all students, faculty, and professional staff feel safe and valued. We take
diversity and inclusion very seriously and we will continue to explore ways to
create the most welcoming and collaborative College possible.

I appreciate all of those who have taken the opportunity to bring forward their
thoughts, ideas, and concerns. In particular, _Donuts with the Dean_ is meant to
be an open dialogue with students, but that dialogue is not restricted just to
that event. I welcome your ideas at any time, and I do look forward to having
many more constructive conversations and events in the future.

Thank you,

Yi Deng

---

_Email sent to the Drexel CCI Student Body on 2/12/2021_

[MailChimp Link](https://mailchi.mp/804e74ed59f7/message-from-the-dean)
