.TH IMG 3tranq 2022-04-09 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
makeimg, setimg \- create and set an HTML image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "makeimg( )"
.BI "setimg( " n ", " src " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmakeimg()\fP creates a new img tag with no src on the HTML pop up page.
It returns an integer identifier that can be used to refrence the image and set
its source.
.PP
Like other Tranquility functions that create HTML elements, \fBmakeimg()\fP
opens a new browser window when called.
.PP
\fBsetimg()\fP sets the source property of an image.
The first argument \fIn\fP should be the return value of an earlier call to
\fBmakeimg()\fP.
The second argument \fIsrc\fP should be a string specifying the image source.
.PP
Images will be placed on the HTML page, left to right, top to bottom in order of
being called.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBmakeimg()\fP returns an integer image identifier.
.PP
\fBsetimg()\fP does not have a return value.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The image specified by \fIsrc\fP must be publicly visible either through a
reliable web URL or an image saved in a public_html directory on tux.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.EX
fun init () {
	var imgA, imgB
	var labelA, labelB

	imgA : makeimg()
	labelA : makelabel()
	imgB : makeimg()
	labelB : makelabel()

	setimg( .imgA, "dog.png" )
	setlabel( .labelA, "This is a picture of a dog" )
	setimg( .imgB, "cat.png" )
	setlabel( .labelB, "This is a picture of a cat" )
}
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.br
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.br
Abigail Hatcher, Fall 21-22
.br
Alex Zavalny, Fall 21-22
.br
Hezekiah Dombach, Fall 21-22
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME cstuart11@protonmail.com
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html (3),
.BR makelabel (3),
.BR tranqc (1)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
