.TH TIMER 3 2022-10-25 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
timer, stoptimer \- Create a timer that executes a function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "timer( " ms ", " fun  " )"
.BI "stoptimer( " n " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtimer()\fP creates a timer that will fire \fIms\fP milliseconds after it is
created.
When it fires, the function passed in as \fIfun\fP will execute.
The function should not include parentheses or arguments.
Only the name of the function should be passed in as a reference.
\fBtimer()\fP returns an integer identifier that can be used to cancel the
timer.
.PP
\fBstoptimer()\fP cancels a previously created timer that has not yet fired.
The argument \fIn\fP should be the value returned by a earlier call to
\fBtimer()\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBtimer()\fP returns a unique identifier to the newly created timer.
.PP
\fBstoptimer()\fP has no return value.
.SH ERRORS
Using parentheses for the \fIfun\fP argument when calling \fBtimer()\fP produces
a variety of unexpected behaviors.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example from page 10 of the Tranquility Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
implements a simple stopwatch.
.PP
.EX
var tim, lab, labstr, sec

fun init() {
	labstr : alloc(10)
	secs : 0
	html("<center\n")
	lab : makelabel("0")
	html("<br>\n")
	button("Start", swstart)
	button("Stop", swstop)
	button("Reset", swreset)
}

fun swstart() {
	tim : timer(1000, timestep)
}

fun swstop() {
	stoptimer(.tim)
}

fun swreset() {
	secs : 0
	setlabel(.lab, "0")
}

fun timestep() {
	time : timer(1000, timestep)
	secs : .secs + 1
	i2s(.labstr, .secs)
	setlabel(.lab, .labstr)
}
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tranqc (1)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
