
We get a lot of questions about Tranquility in this class. I'm going to
use this section to share our vision and frustrations with those of you
who care to read. Tranquility is a custom language that Dr. Stuart wrote
in the summer of '69 (it was actually 2019). I had a bit of input on it,
but he wrote the compiler. Our goal is to create a language with no
practical industry value. We've noticed that students come to college
only willing to learn what will help them get a job. They want to learn
as many languages as they can fit on their resume to make themselves
"marketable". That being said, students are losing valuable skills and
knowledge that is needed for actually being a valuable employee. There's
a certain amount of understanding you need to be a good programmer.
Anyone can copy and paste Java code from StackOverflow into an IDE and
make it run. It takes a special, more valuable programmer to understand
what the code is doing and how it relates to other concepts to write
their own code and read documentation and comprehend it. I am not a
master of any single language. Have I ever programmed in C++ or C\#? No.
Do I know enough about how programming languages work to learn these
languages quickly if needed? Yes. It's the understanding that is being
lost. You'll learn proper resume building programming next term in
CS-171. In this class, there's a much higher focus on just understanding
how code interacts with machines. This is why we have Tranquility. We
want to teach minimal coding with maximum understanding. If you truly
take the time to learn the material, you won't have something to put on
your resume, but you will have the skills you need to succeed in higher
level courses.

How do you learn Tranquility? You only get the PDF manual. That's all
you need. That's all you get. No Googling. No StackOverflow. Reading
documentation is an amazing skill that will benefit you extremely in
life. (You also have the help of TAs and the Professor)

[Tranquility Manual](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf)


