## Some History

So in order to understand the basis of how operating systems are built
and the techniques and designs behind them, it's important to know where
computers started. Thinking back to early computers, they were typically
built for one purpose. These computers really didn't need operating
systems. These computers didn't need a way to manage games and browers
and multitasking the way modern operating systems do. After this age of
computers that performed computations for us, we moved into an era of
computers that were programmable via punch cards. Programmers would draw
out their code, punch the cards, then bring the cards to a central
computer. This computer still had limited functionality. It was intended
to only have one user at a time running one program at a time. In a
university with only one computer and more than one user, you can see
some issues would form. Well let's say a bunch of students and
researchers all need to run their programs. I propose a complete free
for all. Throw everyone in a boxing ring and whoever survives gets to
run their program. According to universities this is "dangerous" and "a
complete waste of time", but I digress. Since we can't have a brawl to
the death to use the computer, we need a sense of organization. Instead
of having multiple gross greasey users touching our expensive computer,
let's have a designated *Computer Person* who is solely in charge of
taking your punchcards and putting them in the computer. Well now we
have an ultimate sword fight to decide who gives their program to the
*Computer User* first? No? Okay. Well, if we can't have valiant sword
fights, I guess a sign up sheet will have to do. The *Designated
Computer Person* will post the sign up sheet. The programmers sign up
for a time slot to run their programs, then drop them off and give them
to our *Almighty Computer Person*. The *Lord of the Computer* then takes
your program at your time slot, runs it as scheduled, then takes your
output and puts it in your mailbox. So now, this computer that can only
run one thing at a time, now has a good *S Y S T E M* to *O P E R A T E*
on so we can run more than one program.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Modern Operating Systems

So how does a large singular computer impact our modern operating
systems? Let's first take a moment to define what an operating system is
and what is required of it. When most of y'all think of operating
systems, you think about Microsoft and MACOS and all these horrible
commercial products. While these are operating systems, they provide a
lot more functionality than what we're going to cover. At its core, an
operating system acts as the bridge between the hardware of the machine,
and the software. It is in charge of managing the hardware resources
among all the different entities being run. It provides common services
and interfaces to applications that run on it.


