Now, you may have gotten this far and you're thinking, what does the
best game in the world have to do with boolean algebra? I will tell you!
This section is a section completely of my own doing. You will never be
tested on Minecraft in this class. This is a way for you to apply
boolean algebra in a fun game. If you don't know anything about
Minecraft or don't care about Minecraft, you can skip this.

---

## Redstone {#redstone style="color:#DD1111"}

I don't know about you, but I started Minecraft back when it was in
alpha. Zombies dropped feathers and hunger didn't exist. I was about 10
years old. At 10 years old, I was not very good at video games. I am
still not very good at video games. The point is, I was not old enough
or smart enough to figure out redstone properly. I was barely smart
enough to survive the day in Minecraft. For me, a redstone torch was
just an annoyingly dim torch. Now, after learning a lot more about
boolean algebra and computers, and revisting Minecraft (dude there are
dolphins now), redstone makes a lot more sense.

For the most part, the redstone transfers over to the real life circuits
really well. There are a few inconsistencies. Levers can be considered
switches for the most part, however, in real life, switches don't create
an on signal by themselves. Also, while there is some resistance in
wires, you don't completely lose any signal within 15 feet. Redstone
wire can only carry a signal 15 blocks before needing a repeater. Other
than that, the gates are fairly simple. The image below shows how to
build each gate.

![](booleanalgebra/imgs/minecraftlogic.jpg)

Something I want you to notice is the difference between the AND and
NAND circuits. Compare them. NAND is actually simpler than AND. It is
only less complicated by one block, but it's still a simpler circuit.
One of the reasons NAND is a popular gate is not only because it's a
universal gate, but it also has a simple makeup.

I am going to leave you with this and nothing else. It is up to you to
build some circuits in Minecraft with this information. Build computers.
Have fun.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Logic Gate Image Credit [Minecraft
Wiki](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/File:StandardLogicGates.png)*


