.TH BUTTON 3 2022-10-25 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
button, buttonlabel \- Create a button on the HTML page
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "button( " label ", " fun  " )"
.BI "buttonlabel( " b ", " label " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbutton()\fP creates a button on the HTML page with text specified by the
\fIlabel\fP argument.
When pressed, the function passed in as \fIfun\fP will execute.
The function should not include parentheses or arguments.
Only the name of the function should be passed in as a reference.
.PP
Like other Tranquility functions that create HTML elements, \fBbutton()\fP opens
a new browser window when called if one had not previously existed.
.PP
\fBbuttonlabel()\fP updates the text displayed on the button \fIb\fP with the
string specified by the \fIlabel\fP argument.
\fIb\fP should be an identifier for a button that was returned by a call to
\fBbutton()\fP.
.PP
Buttons will be placed on the HTML page, left to right, top to bottom in order
of being called.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBbutton()\fP returns a unique identifier to the newly created button.
.PP
\fBbuttonlabel()\fP has no return value.
.SH ERRORS
Using parentheses for the \fIfun\fP argument when calling \fBbutton()\fP
produces a variety of unexpected behaviors.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example changes the label on the button randomly after each click.
.PP
.EX
var b
fun change() {
	var r
	r : random( 3 )

	if( .r == 0 ) {
		buttonlabel( .b, "Zero" )
	}
	else if( .r == 1 ) {
		buttonlabel( .b, "One" )
	}
	else {
		buttonlabel( .b, "Two" )
	}
}
fun init(){
	b : button( "Unclicked", change )
}
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.br
Amalia Sorribes, Fall 21-22
.br
Donovan Dolan, Fall 21-22
.br
Evan Yan, Fall 21-22
.br
Kevin Lin, Fall 21-22
.br
Nicolo Agbayani, Fall 21-22
.br
Nicholas Ingravallo, Fall 21-22
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tranqc (1),
.BR html (3)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
