.TH LABEL 3 2022-10-25 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
makelabel, setlabel \- create and set HTML text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "makelabel( " s " )"
.BI "setlabel( " n ", " s " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmakelabel()\fP creates a new label tag with the text specified by string
\fIs\fP on the HTML pop up page.
It returns an integer identifier that can be used to refrence the label and
change the text displayed.
.PP
Like other Tranquility functions that create HTML elements, \fBmakelabel()\fP
opens a new browser window when called if one had not already existed.
.PP
\fBsetlabel()\fP changes the text in the label identified by the first argument
\fIn\fP to the string \fIs\fP specified by the second argument.
\fIn\fP should be an integer identifier returned by an earlier call to
\fBmakelabel()\fP
.PP
Labels will be placed on the HTML page, left to right, top to bottom in order of
being called.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBmakelabel()\fP returns an integer label identifier.
.PP
\fBsetlabel()\fP does not have a return value.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.EX
fun init () {
	var imgA, imgB
	var labelA, labelB

	imgA : makeimg()
	labelA : makelabel()
	imgB : makeimg()
	labelB : makelabel()

	setimg( .imgA, "dog.png" )
	setlabel( .labelA, "This is a picture of a dog" )
	setimg( .imgB, "cat.png" )
	setlabel( .labelB, "This is a picture of a cat" )
}
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.br
Nathan Xaysena, Fall 21-22
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html (3),
.BR makeimg (3),
.BR tranqc (1)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
