.TH READ 3tranq 2022-04-06 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
iread, sread \- Pop up a dialog prompting the user for input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "iread( " p " )"
.BI "sread( " s ", " p " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBiread()\fP brings up a pop-up dialog asking the user to enter an integer,
using the string referenced by \fIp\fP as the message in the dialog.
.PP
\fBsread()\fP pops up a dialog prompting the user for a string as input, using
the second argument \fIp\fP as the message in the dialog.
The string entered by the user is copied into the memory starting at the address
passed as the first argument \fIs\fP.
The null terminator is also copied over.
.PP
If \fIp\fP is not provided in either function, the dialog box does not contain a
prompt.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBiread()\fP returns the numeric value of the integer entered by the user.
Note that Tranquility only has support for integers and will truncate fractional
numbers.
.PP
\fBsread()\fP has no return value.
.SH NOTES
The syntax of \fBiread()\fP allows it to be used without being assigned to a
variable without errors.
If not set to a variable or present in an arithmetic equation then the data
entered will be lost.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example sets n to be 5 times the value entered by the user.
.PP
.EX
fun init() {
	var n

	n : 5 * iread("Enter an integer:")
	iprint(.n)
}
.EE
.PP
The following example takes in a 10 letter input from the user without a prompt
.PP
.EX
fun init() {
	var str

	str : alloc( 11 )
	sread( .str )
}
.EE
.SH BUGS
The code will crash if .BR iread() is the first line of code and it's return
value is not set to a variable.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.br
Carson Ford, Fall 21-22
.br
Ryan Abraham, Fall 21-22
.PP
Sherry Liu, Winter 21-22
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tranqc(1),
.BR iprint(3),
.BR sprint(3),
.BR i2s(3),
.BR alloc(3)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
