.TH TABLE 3 2022-10-25 "Tranquility Built In Functions" "Tranquility Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
maketable, setcell, setcellcolor \- create an HTML table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.BI "maketable( " r ", " c ", " f " )"
.BI "setcell( " t ", " r ", " c ", " s " )"
.BI "setcellcolor( " t ", " r ", " c ", " color " )"
.fi
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmaketable()\fP creates a table with \fIr\fP rows and \fIc\fP columns and
returns an integer table identifier.
The function specified by optional argument \fIf\fP will execute each time a
user clicks on a cell.
\fIf\fP will have the row and column of the clicked cell passed to it as
arguments.
.PP
\fBsetcell()\fP sets the contents of the cell at row \fIr\fP and column \fIc\fP
in the table specified by \fIt\fP to the string specified by \fIs\fP.
\fIr\fP and \fIc\fP are indexed at 0.
The table specified by \fIt\fP should be a value returned by an earlier call to
\fBmaketable()\fP.
.PP
\fBsetcellcolor()\fP sets the background color of the cell at row \fIr\fP and
column \fIc\fP in the table specified by \fIt\fP to the value specified by the
\fIcolor\fP string argument.
\fIr\fP and \fIc\fP are indexed at 0.
The table specified by \fIt\fP should be a value returned by an earlier call to
\fBmaketable()\fP.
.PP
The \fIcolor\fP string should take a color in a CSS readable form.
.TP
This includes:
.br
RGB values ("rgb( R, G, B)")
.br
Hexadecimal values ("#RRGGBB")
.br
Color Names ("Red")
.PP
A full list of the 140 browser recognizable color names can be found at
.UR https://charlierose.dev/cs164/numbers/colors.html
.UE
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBmaketable()\fP returns an integer table identifier.
.PP
\fBsetcell()\fP and \fBsetcellcolor()\fP do not have return values.
.SH EXAMPLE
A tic tac toe example:
.PP
.EX
var table, xos

fun makemove( r, c ) {
	if( .(xos + (.i * 3) + .j) == 0 ) {
		setcell( .table, .i, .j, "X" )
		setcellcolor( .table, .i, .j, "blue" )
		.(xos + (.i * 3) + .j ) : 1
	}
	else if( .(xos + (.i * 3) + .j) == 1 ) {
		setcell( .table, .i, .j, "O" )
		setcellcolor( .table, .i, .j, "yellow" )
		.(xos + (.i * 3) + .j ) : 2
	}
	else {
		setcell( .table, .i, .j, " " )
		setcellcolor( .table, .i, .j, "white" )
		.(xos + (.i * 3) + .j ) : 0
	}
}

fun init() {
	var i, j

	table : maketable( 3, 3, makemove )
	xos : alloc( 9 )

	i : 0
	loop {
		until .i == 3
		j : 0
		loop {
			until .j == 3

			setcell( .table, .i, .j, " " )
			setcellcolor( .table, .i, .j, "white" )
			.(xos + (.i * 3) + .j ) : 0
		}
	}
}
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Charlie Stuart
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.br
Irvin Fenochio, Fall 21-22
.br
M M Farhan Salaheen Hossain, Fall 21-22
.br
Shivang Patel, Winter 21-22
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
First, check the Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
.TP
If the problem persists see Dr. Stuart or Charlie Stuart
.br
Dr. Stuart:
.MT brian.l.stuart@drexel.edu
.ME
.br
Charlie Stuart:
.MT cstuart11@protonmail.com
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tranqc (1),
.BR html (3)
.PP
Tranquility Programmer's Manual
.br
.UR https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~bls96/tranquility.pdf
.UE
