# New Year, New Me, New Website

So the title is mostly a lie. I started reworking this website in April, 2020.
This is defintely not a new year (I'm also writing this post in June). While I 
am an ever changing and ever growing person, I don't think it's a new me. However,
this is a new website (kinda). 

I've had this web domain for a little over a year now and I started building a
site for myself when I got the domain. Due to classes, I never got around to 
finishing it. When I came back to it in April, it was a mess. While I had a sleek
modern website, the code was messy and I had little wiggle room for improvement.
The CSS had become so essential to functionality, it was impossible to expand.
Given the amount of work I had put in, I wasn't proud of what I created. 

My close friend [Ashn](ashn.dev) had shown me his website and how he built it and
I was inspired to destroy all of my work in favor of rebuilding in a similar 
manner to his.
The general concept was based much more around simplicity and functionality.
Delivering the necessary information with heavy JavaScript and CSS. The general
process is compiling the markdown source files into HTML using `pandoc` then
putting it onto a template with a homegrown bash script. The source code is 
fairly simple and all on my [GitHub](https://github.com/charlierosec/dev-website).

I have a few goals for this site. There is the gross "resume expansion" aspect.
One part is providing more information about myself than on a single sheet of 
paper for potential employers. Another part is it's a really fun personal project
that I can continually work on, and put on my resume. I don't like "doing things
for my resume". I prefer doing things I enjoy and want to learn.

At the end of the day though, I do want this project to be an extension/synopsis
of me. A full list of my experience. Blog posts about projects and happenings.
A way to encourage myself to get more involved in projects and to learn new things.
I even spent way too long designing the theme to reflect a terminal feel but also
kinda quirky like me.

I welcome you to my new project and I'm excited to see where this goes.


