# Philadelphia Trans Wellness Conference 2021

This post is a little late, but I've been busy with moving and prepartions for
surgery, so I haven't had a chance to write out everything I wanted to about the
Philly Trans Wellness Conference this year.

One of my favorite parts of living in Philly is the [Philadelphia Trans Wellness
Conference](https://web.cvent.com/event/8772d16d-b5b8-46c4-9430-13308c6ec075)
hosted by the [Mazzoni Center](https://www.mazzonicenter.org/). The Mazzoni
Center is a really great community health center in Philly that prioritizes the
needs of the LGBTQ+ community. In 2000, they started hosting the Philly
Trans-Health Conference. It was then renamed to the Philly Trans Wellness
Conference to prioritize the wide variety of needs that trans people have beyond
healthcare. It has grown into the largest trans specific health conference in
the world and is free to attend.

I've gone the past two years it was in person and it was a really incredible
experience being in a room with hundreds of other trans people. There's at least
10 different panels happening at every hour. There's different faith services
all day. There's events for GaySL (queer American Sign Language), yoga, legal
advice, financial advice, hobbies, a day camp for kids, panels for allies, and
so much more. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this year was online, and didn't
have nearly as many events as the in person conference would have, but it was
still incredibly wonderful.

The conference took place July 22nd through the 24th. I didn't get to attend all
the events I wanted to due to the move, and like I said above, this post is a
little late, but one of the whole reasons I made a blog was to keep track of my
experiences at conferences I've been to.

### Grief: You're Not Doing It Wrong

Thursday morning, I started with the panel on grief. It was hosted by [Kelli
Dunham (she/they)](https://www.kellidunham.com/). The resources from their talk
are listed on their [website](http://www.kellidunham.com/if-you-came-here-after-the-philly-trans-wellness-workshop-about-grief/).

Kelli was absolutely wonderful to listen to. They managed to keep a conversation
about grief at 10am lighthearted and serious. They started by asking the group
the question "Why are you here?". Responses ranged from people losing loved
ones, to the specific experiences of the trans/gnc community such as losing
parts of your identity and missing out on experiences. From there, we talked
about inaccurate depictions of grief in media and then talked about more
accurate depictions of grief in media. We also talked about how we specifically
experience grieve, how it's not a one time event, and how we can support each
other when traumatic experiences occur. I was really impressed with how easily
we talked about tough topics, especially at 10am. Some quotes that really stood
out to me were

"Everything happens for a reason, but the reason is usually racism, sexism,
classism, colonialism, or because someone is being a huge flaming asshole"

"The grief people feel when you come out as trans is interesting because they 
treat you like both the victim of a murder and also the murderer"

### Restricted Sections

After the grief panel, I attended a restricted section regarding bottom surgery.
It was people sharing their surgeries and experiences. Since this material was
extremely personal and sensitive, it was restricted to transmasculine people
attending for their own intents. While I cannot speak about the contents of the
panel, I wanted to highlight the nature of restricted events and the steps in
place to protect attendees and presenters.

The first fifteen minutes of the panel was spent going over the rules. After the
rules had finished, the Zoom room was closed to new entrants. By staying for the
duration of the rules and event, you consented to following the rules given and
would face punishment if the rules were broken, such as, but not limited to,
being removed and banned from the conference.

The rules were incredibly comprehensive and prioritized the safety and consent
of the presenters. Most presenters were anonymous, and their anonymity was to be
respected. There was no catcalling or screenshots allowed. Overall, respect the
people presenting and what happens in the panel, stays in the panel. The other
main aspect of the rules was the restricted nature of the event. The panel was
restricted to transmasculine people attending for their own intents. You were
not allowed to attend on behalf of someone else. Medical professionals were not
allowed to attend for research or advertising purposes. Only people attending
for their own knowledge to make informed decisions for their bodies. The other
part of this was the transmasculine restriction. Transmasculine typically means
someone who identifies with masculinity despite their gender assigned at birth.
This typically includes transgender men and masculine nonbinary people. However,
I respected how the presenter made a point to include people left out by this
label that would still want surgery. This includes, but is not limited to,
intersex people, nonbinary people, and two-spirit people.

I was very impressed with the measures put in place to protect those presenting
and attending, in addition to the respect from those attending.

### Connecting to Ourselves in a Time Apart: Meditation for TGNB People

Saturday morning (my birthday) I attended a morning meditation for transgender
and nonbinary people. It focused on connecting to ourselves and the world
around us, which can be an added challenge for trans and nonbinary people who
have dysphoria. The presenters started by acknowledging the roots of meditation
and the land we're on. We talked about the cultures who started meditation and
how they lost many of their practices due to colonization. We also talked about
the land that we are situated on. The city of Philadelphia is currently sitting
on land stolen from the Lenni Lenape people. They shared the following resource
to learn what land you are living on: [https://native-land.ca/](https://native-land.ca/).
We talked about how the first steps in making reparations to the people whose
land was stolen and lives were lost was to acknowledge the land lineage and
ancestors.

After acknowledging our roots, lineage, and history, we took time to thank
ourselves for attending the meditation and making time for self care. We
started with a quick grounding meditation before talking more about our history.
As mentioned before, meditation is not a new practice. It was started by ancient
cultures. These ancient cultures also worshipped many entities. These entities
had many genders beyond male and female. Due to colonization and Christianity,
many of these sacred genders and practices were intentionally erased. I am
absolutely heartbroken that all of my notes that I had taken during the panel
were not saved. I wish I could have concrete examples here. The point was that
trans people have always existed and have always had a place in the world. After
that discussion, we moved onto a heart centered guided meditation. It was
focused around appreciating ourselves and the people in our lives. The entire
event was really wonderful.


### In Conclusion

I didn't talk about all the panels I attended, mostly just the ones that
resonated the most with me. I was also really busy and didn't get a chance to
fully involve myself as I would've wanted.

Despite the online environment, I was really impressed by how much they had to
offer. I wish there were more wellness centered panels. This year focused much
more on healthcare and surgery. I'm still really happy that I got to attend and
got a lot out of it. I'm excited for next year to hopefully be in person again.

---

trans (adj) : Short for transgender. Used to described someone's gender that is
different from the one assigned to them at birth

gnc (adj) : Short for Gender Non-Conforming. Someone who's gender identity
and/or expression falls outside societal gender norms
