# COVID-19 and Graduate Courses

The riveting tale of how the professor I work for got COVID-19 and I had to
step in and take over the course. I'm going to set this up as a timeline. The
first few are the events leading up to this. I'll post a daily log of how 
everything is going to chronicle my adventures.

### Tuesday, May 26th

Lecture is normally every Tuesday from 6pm-9pm. This was supposed to be the 
eighth lecture of the term. Due to the global pandemic, Drexel's ten week term
has been shortened to a nine week term. That means this is supposed to be the
second to last lecture of the term. 

The professor starts the lecture stating she is sick. She has a sore throat. 
She asks us to be patient with her. She ends up having a really rough time 
speaking and ends lecture in 45 minutes.

At the time I didn't think anything of it. At this point, we had been in 
quarantine in Philly for about two months. We hadn't heard much about COVID-19
in a while. It did not cross my mind that she was infected.

### Saturday, May 30th

We got a email today from the professor. We hadn't heard much from her at this
point. The subject line was "Bad News" which was worrying. The email was very
brief. The professor had caught COVID-19 and now has pnuemonia. She asked me to
take charge of lecture on Tuesday. I drew up a plan. I knew the topic fairly
well and I have lecturing experience, so I wasn't too worried. The TA I work
with asked if she could have a chance to lecture since she's never done it
before. We only expected to cover the lecture.

I sent out an announcement to the class. I told them all the professor was 
still sick, and that myself and the other TA would be in charge of lecture. 
Students were comfortable with me lecturing as I've done it before in this 
course. I recieved lots of well wishes for the professor. I got one message
from a student, "i hope she's going to be ok. its not the 'rona, is it?". I 
ended up not responding. The whole experience was very chilling.

### Monday, June 1st

Normally, we would have we a weekly Monday meeting with the professor to talk
about the week ahead and grading. Instead, myself and the other TA used the 
time to plan out lecture.

### Tuesday, June 2nd

This is the last lecture of the term. I didn't realize that until I had finished
the lecture. Overall, everything went smoothly. We covered all the material as 
needed. Lots of students asked questions I couldn't answer about the final and
the professor's health.

After lecture, I sent the professor an update email detailing how lecture went
and asking a few questions relating to the remainder of the course. I told 
myself if I didn't have a response by the end of the next day I'd contact the 
department heads on moving forward. There's a lot of time sensitive grades that
need to be dealt with. I don't have time to wait for a response that may never
come.

### Wednesday, June 3rd

I didn't hear back from the professor today. So I contacted the department 
heads. I got a near instantaneous response that they'd be meeting the next day
to discuss moving forward.

### Thursday, June 4th

Today is my first day of doing a daily log. I wrote the past few days to start.
Today was a big day.

I woke up to a long email chain from the department heads, and our department 
technology services master. All they had were final exam questions the professor
had prepped. Thankfully, she had prepped 265 different exam questions. The tech
manager had these all loaded into our Drexel systems for me. We use BlackBoard
Learn at Drexel to host our grades. There were a few questions for me to address
in their emails. I planned a meeting with our undergraduate department head. 
While she isn't the graduate department head, she assigns me courses as a TA and
I've worked with her before.

I met with our undergrad department head. We went over how to create a final from
the list of questions. We went over the weights for the different parts of the 
course. We went over how to curve the course and calculate final grades for 
students. Basically, from here, I am taking control of the course and will be 
reaching out to the department heads when I need help or guidance. 

After my meeting, I ate dinner and got to work. Here's my basic check list of 
what needs to be accomplished. A lot of these things won't be done anytime soon
as they require other deadlines to occur.

**Comprehensive To-Do List** (as of 6/4)

- Update students on the current situation
- Finish grading projects 1 and 2
	- Project 1 can be done
	- Project 2 is due 6/7 and will be graded after then
- Transfer lab grades from zyBooks to BBLearn
	- Lab 8 can be done
	- Lab 9 is due 6/7 and will be done after that
		- Lab 9 also needs to be written down for students so they can do it
- Do a final run down of project, lecture, and lab grades
    - Is everything accounted for
	- Do all students have grades
- Final Exam
	- Categorize the final exam questions
	- Create the exam by pulling X questions from each category
	- Choose size of exam (# of Qs, Points per Q)
	- Post the exam 6/8
	- Create study guide
- Final Grades
	- Create the assignments in BBLearn and weighted columns
	- Create the Preliminary Final Grade column based on the weights
	  from the syllabus
	- Calculate the final letter grades based off final percentage grades (6/16)
	- Curve if need be

First thing I did with my night was to announce and update my students of the 
current situation. The department heads and I agreed it was best to not tell 
students that the professor had COVID-19. They are currently deciding the best 
way for students to be told about the professor will not be attending to the 
rest of the course. Currently, they are deliberating between the department 
emailing students, or me telling them. My announcement today was about the
project and lab grades and the structure of the final exam. I also did an absurd
amount of thanking them for their patience and cooperation. I feel bad for them.
I'm a mess and everything is chaotic, and my grade and education isn't on the 
line. Overall, everyone was receptive. Philly has been experiencing some storms
recently that have caused power outages. I gave some students extensions to get
work done. The most I can do is to be accomodating. I need the. to accomodate 
me. I had to cancel my Friday office hours. This exam needs to be done ASAP so
they have time to take it.

From there I started checking stuff off my list. I started with the grade center
and getting it prepped. I put the columns in for the assignments for Week 9 that
the professor never got around to adding. I got all my weighted columns set up 
and Preliminary Final Grades prepped. I can't tell if it's working until all the 
grades are in on 6/16. I've got something to jump off of.

From there I started reading through the 265 prepared final exam questions. I'm
absurdly thankful the exam questions already exist. I don't think I'd be able to
prepare an exam from scratch this close to the deadline with everything else I'm
taking on. I read through all the questions and started to categorize them. I
managed to break them down into different categories based on topic or structure.
This took way too long and it was getting late. Once I finished that, I have a 
good idea of what the exam is on and what information to tell the students to 
study. I also emailed our tech manager about getting these questions into 
categories on BBLearn. Mine is currently set up on paper. 

The plan for the final is to have pools of questions where X questions from each
category are chosen at random for each student. This way we can allow students
to take different exams at a similar level. For example, let's say we have a pool
of 30 questions. There are 10 easy questions, 10 medium, 10 hard. Each student 
only gets 10 total questions; 5 from the easy pool, 3 medium, 2 hard. This allows
each student to get similar exams, but not the same. This helps prevent 
plagiarism. The exam will be open for a week and students have 2 hours from 
opening it to complete it. This allows students with full time jobs, families, or
in stressful situations to complete on their own time.

I got a lot done today. I also got my first email from the professor since 
Saturday. Very short email. She got released from the ICU today. Terrifying to 
know she's been in the ICU. I'm glad to know she's starting to recover. She
definitely won't be here for the rest of the course, but I'm starting to think
I have things under control. I've got awesome department heads, a great tech
manager, and a completely unrelated mentor professor who's been keeping me sane.
We're all in this together.

### Friday, June 5th

I was up til 5am working last night and writing, so I woke up around noon today.
This is much later than I would have preferred to wake up, but it's not like I
need to be anywhere physically.

I woke up to a few important emails. Two from the undergraduate department head.
She sent myself and the other TA a prepatory email that she would be emailing
the entire class on the status of the professor, and that we should keep what
illness she has under wraps. The second email was sent 10 minutes later to the
full class. From what I can tell, I think the students were prepared for the
professor to be gone for the remainder of the course, this was just the final
confirmation of their theories.

I also got an email from our tech manager regarding the exam. BBLearn is really
unintuitive and nearly impossible to use. I have 265 questions to work with. My
plan was to categorize these questions and then pull X amount of questions from
each category to create a fairly well weighted exam. However, BBLearn was really
not helpful in this. When I go to access the questions, there's no organization
or clear way to tell them apart. This makes organizing 265 similarly worded 
questions very hard to do. Apparently I was using the wrong type of grouping and 
pulling questions from the wrong spots to organize. The tech manager sent me 
some links and videos to aid me. No matter how I did it, nothing worked. I sent
him another email explaining the issue. No response yet, and the weekend is 
coming up. I need to get a plan for the final by the end of tomorrow so that it's
ready to be released Monday morning.

If this category issue isn't resolved, I need a new tactic for the final. I think
I'm not gonna be able to do my slick categories plan. I'm probably just going to 
have to give my students X questions total. This leads to a much less balanced 
exam, but I don't have the time to spend fighting BBLearn. I also need to sit down
and calculate point values for the exam, point values for questions, and how many
questions.

I also got a chance to write up a comprehensive study guide for the exam with all
the topics and types of questions students can come across. I want to give them
as much information as possible since the deadline is so soon.

I was really not thrilled about how little I got done for the final, so I spent 
some time getting grades in BBLearn. I went through zyBooks and tranferred some
reading and lab grades over. Normally, we'd have a script for this and it would 
take only 10 mintutes. However, the professor isn't doing things the normal way.
The labs are out of 500 points which then gets scaled down to 10. This normally
would only take a simple equation, but not all 500 points are required to get 
the 10 points, and there are certain ways that are required to get certain points.
It's really messy and requires me to do this all by hand. I would go through and 
figure out a way to write a script, but I really don't have that free time right
now. 

One of the things I'm starting to hear myself say too many times is "I would do
X if I had more time..." and "I would do X if I had to do this every week". It's
an interesting new perspective and I'm learning a lot about teaching.

**Completed Tasks**

- Release final exam study guide to students
- Transfer lab grades from zyBooks to BBLearn
	- Lab 8 can be done
	- Reading 9
- Update students on the current situation

**To-Do List**

- Finish grading projects 1 and 2
	- Project 1
	- Project 2 (After 6/7)
- Transfer lab grades from zyBooks to BBLearn
	- Lab 9 (After 6/7)
- Do a final run down of project, lecture, and lab grades
    - Is everything accounted for
	- Do all students have grades
	- Can do for completed assignments
- Final Exam (Before 6/8)
	- Figure out format
	    - Create the exam by pulling X questions from each category
	    - No categories
	- Choose size of exam (# of Qs, Points per Q)
	- Post the exam
- Final Grades (6/16-6/17)
	- Calculate the final letter grades based off final percentage grades
	- Curve if need be

### Saturday, June 6th

Another late night and another late morning. I woke up to an email from our
tech manager. He told me that he is very good at using BBLearn, and if I told
him what I wanted, he would do it for me. It only took him a few hours to do
what would've taken me the entire weekend. This means I could do the category
style final exam.

From there, I finished the final exam today, which both gave me a few gray hairs
and took a massive weight off my shoulders. I managed to finish the exam with 36
hours to spare before students start taking it. I consider that an achievement.
I'm actually ahead of schedule and finishing tasks a lot faster than I was 
anticipating.

Since I'm so far ahead of schedule, I added more office hours to make up for the
fact I cancelled so many this week. I added some tomorrow before their project is
due later that night. I also added some on Monday night. That is in addition to
my normal Wednesday/Friday hours. I wish I could have given them more blocks of 
time to meet with me before their project was due, but the final had to come first.
It's a much larger portion of their grade and requires a lot more work from me.

From here, I think the only action item for the next week is to finish the grading
I have to do. I'll have their projects, the lab grades to transfer, and then any
straglers that never got graded.

**Completed Tasks**
- Final Exam
	- Figure out format
	    - Create the exam by pulling X questions from each category
	- Choose size of exam (# of Qs, Points per Q)
		- 75 multiple choice questions, 4 points per question
	- Scheduled the exam to be posted
- Added extra office hours

**To-Do List**

- Finish grading projects 1 and 2
	- Project 1
	- Project 2 (After 6/7)
- Transfer lab grades from zyBooks to BBLearn
	- Lab 9 (After 6/7)
- Do a final run down of project, lecture, and lab grades
    - Is everything accounted for
	- Do all students have grades
	- Can do for completed assignments
- Final Grades (6/16-6/17)
	- Calculate the final letter grades based off final percentage grades
	- Curve if need be

### Monday, June 8th

Yesterday was busy with chores around the apartment, so I didn't get a chance
to write about what happened.

These two days have been my most TA-like days. Yesterday and today I held my
rescheduled office hours. I didn't realize how much I missed that interaction
with the students.

I started and finished grading the final part of their first project. We 
originally had one week in between each part of project 1, however, that didn't
give us, the TAs, enough time to provide good feedback that the students could
learn from. We gave them two weeks to finish the first project and the amount
that they improved is really showing. I hope to see the same thing when I grade
their second project that was due last night.

Their final zyBooks assignment was also due last night, so I transferred those
grades over today. I'm very glad to be done with zyBooks for the term. It is not
my favorite teaching tool. 

Today the final exam I spent way too long stressing on was opened. I have not had
any students start it yet. They have a week to take it, so I'm not surprised no
one has started the exam on the first day it opens. 

The course is really in the home stretch here. It's so much more managable than I
was expecting.

**Completed Tasks**
- Finish grading project 1
- Transfer zyBooks lab grades
- Release final exam

**To-Do List**

- Finish grading project 2
	- Wait for the few extensions to come in
- Do a final run down of project, lecture, and lab grades
    - Is everything accounted for
	- Do all students have grades
	- Can do for completed assignments
- Final Grades (6/16-6/17)
	- Calculate the final letter grades based off final percentage grades
	- Curve if need be



