LGBTQ+,Professional
styles.css
# QWER Hacks 2022 Workshop : Accidental Activism in Academia

[QWER Hacks @ UCLA](https://www.qwerhacks.com/)
is
[Major League Hacking's (MLH)](https://mlh.io/)
first LGBTQIA+ hackathon. This years theme was _Embracing Identity Through Self
Empowerment_ and had four tracks: _Community & Connection_, _Health & Wellness_,
_Learning & Growth_, and _Art & Expression_.

While the event lasted from January 21st through the 23rd, I hosted my workshop
on Saturday, the 22nd. This was the first workshop I've ever hosted outside of
Drexel and it was pretty exciting to put together. My workshop was titled
_Accidental Activism in Academia_ and was focused around my journey in starting
my activism work and how to do it intentionally.

I'm gonna spend this post going over my experience at the hackathon, creating my
first workshop outside of Drexel, and going more in depth than my slides allow.

[[Slides (PDF)]](qwerhacksslides.pdf)

[[Workshop Recording]]()

---

### Slides Breakdown

This is my first time hosting a workshop outside of Drexel, so I'm super
excited. I only have 30 minutes to host this workshop, so I needed to take the
time to focus, what do I want to cover, and how do I want to cover that?

I knew I wanted to cover my journey through activism and how to replicate that,
but I soon realized it was easier said than done. The first challenge was
figuring out what exactly I did. I didn't plan anything I've done at Drexel. It
just happened and snowballed and turned into the position I have today. So
first, I needed to figure out what I did, and how to replicate it. The second
challenge, once I figured out what exactly I wanted to present and what other
people could benefit from, was fitting it in the 30 minute time limit. I had to
cut a lot of content I wanted. Despite the cuts, I'm still happy with the
content I created.

I wanted to take the time to go over my slides and add material I didn't have
time to cover. I omitted a few slides from my explanation, but those slides
primarily covered logistics from the day of.

![Slide 3: My Background](slide3.png)

I am currently in my senior year at Drexel University. Looking back, I could
have never predicted the path I would take here during my undergraduate
education. I have had such an influence on this college that I would never have
asked for. Now, I'm in a position where graduation is imminent and I need to
finish the work I can, or pass it onto someone else. This requires looking back
and figuring out what exactly I did. I took the time on this slide to identify
some of the most impactful events of my career as an activist at Drexel.

#### Closeted through High School {.qo}

High school Charlie would be quite disappointed in undergrad Charlie. High
school Charlie was an angsty teenager who wanted nothing to do with school and
would be truly disgusted to know how much undergraduate Charlie has done both
socially and academically. I really was an entirely different person. I was
closeted and afraid and wasn't fully aware of the gravity of what I was facing.
It wasn't until I started to come out in college that I realized what life could
be.

#### Starting College and "Coming Out" {.qo}

I put "come out" in quotes here. I realized in my first week at Drexel that no
one knew who I was and I took this time as an opportunity to reinvent myself. I
didn't tell anyone what my legal name was. I introduced myself as Charlie. After
my fall term, I decided to start using he/him pronouns and start correcting
people on my gender. This was the first time I really embraced my gender out
loud. However, I was still heavily closeted to both of my biological parents out
of fear, and rightly so and they both ended up being quite horrible, only
earning the title "parent" in the most biological sense.

#### Facing Transphobia From The Start {.qo}

I introduced myself exclusively as Charlie to others. I acted as if I had no
other name. However, my former legal name was used on class lists. This normally
wasn't an issue. I'd contact professors via email or after class to let them
know of the name change, and no one ever had any issues. Or, I'd just use only
my student ID for attendance and assignment purposes. In my first term, I took a
class called CI-101. It was a very basic class that just gave an overview of
topics that fell under the broad umbrella of "computing". For this reason, many
people skipped class and would have their friends sign them in for attendance
credit. We soon lost the privilege of signed ourselves in and the TAs were
forced to call attendance out loud everyday.

The first day that attendance was done out loud, our TA said "We have the wrong
list. There isn't an _former legal name_ in this class". My former legal last
name was at the start of the alphabet and I knew the TA was referring to me, but
didn't realize it. I raised my hand and corrected the TA, stating that despite
having the legal name called out, my name is Charlie. The TA took this
opportunity to exclusively call me by my legal name. He found it funny and would
laugh at the fact I was uncomfortable by this.

At first, I didn't do anything. 

#### oSTEM @ Drexel {.qo}

#### Donuts With The Dean {.qo}

#### DEI Council and Admin Work {.qo}

![Slide 4: A Overview of the Five Categories of Environments I've Defined](slide4.png)



![Slide 5: An "Actively Violent" Environment](slide5.png)

![Slide 6: A "Passively Discriminatory" Environment ](slide6.png)

![Slide 7: "Reactive Actions"](slide7.png)

![Slide 8: "Preventative Actions"](slide8.png)

![Slide 9: "Strengthening Actions"](slide9.png)

![Slide 10: Asking "What Now?" and How to Move Forward](slide10.png)

![Slide 11: The Reality of the Situation](slide11.png)

![Slide 12: How to Survive This Journey](slide12.png)

---

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">
	<img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" />
</a>
<br />
This work is licensed under a 
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>

